morning guys uh it's cold and windy out
preheating the Cub I'll fly probably
tomorrow morning um but when I put my
last video about uh kind of my training
experience through United I got a couple
questions a couple emails about the
interview process and um applying uh
resume questions interview questions
stuff like that so I figured I'd just
put together a really quick um
discussion about maybe hints or tips or
just about the interview in the
application process because it's kind of
a it's kind of a huge pain and I know
everybody like I got a bunch of friends
in spirit that are reaching out and
saying hey I'm thinking about you know
applying or throwing my app in I'm kind
of walking through the process and it's
kind of a hassle takes a while and it's
important that you get it right because
things like
typos um incorrectly putting stuff or
leaving stuff out could kind of have a
big implication or it could kind of
prevent your resume or your application
from being pulled to move on through to
the next process so stuff like that is
important um
now as far
as applying to the Airlines and and you
know being competitive by the time this
video gets out to you in in 48 hours the
minimums or or the the preferred
qualifications will probably change
that's kind of just historically how the
airline industry is um what was
competitive in you know 2021 2022 and
2023 is significantly different than
what's competitive now um and a lot of
that has to do with Co
coming out of Co you know during Co a
lot of the airlines they gave early outs
and then coming out of Co they had to
you know backfill all of those positions
as well as start growing again so they
really had no choice but just hire a
significant amount of of applicants
probably from a a a lower I don't want
to say lower qualifi but they just have
less experience less time than they
traditionally would have had uh say
prior to covid um it took a significant
amount of turban pic for the most part
to get get looked at by Legacy Airline
uh and that's not so much the case now
it's definitely getting a little bit
more competitive just because the um
aircraft aren't being delivered there's
a little bit of a uh capacity dump so
airlines are kind of pulling back a
little bit and then you have Spirit uh
and Frontier and in some cases Southwest
some of those Pilots are are applying to
the traditional Legacy Airlines so your
your pool of qualified candidates is
growing and probably has a little bit
higher experience than it had uh postco
so yeah there might be a little bit more
competitive out there but don't let that
stop you from applying to the airlines
if you meet the minimums um apply and
update often now as far as going you
know what which what each Airline looks
for just you have to go on the airlines
independent web page and they'll put
minimum specifications and that's the
minimum right so you might get looked at
or interviewed with those and you might
not um but if you meet the minimum
you're qualified apply and update as
often as you can now each airline does
things a little bit
differently I've been through 4 and a
half Airline interviews and I say half
because I went through the
American HR portion which is done via a
zoom call and if that was successful I
would fly down to Dallas and do the
in-person interview there with a a panel
of pilots and I believe HR but I had
gotten the United cjo right around that
time so I reached out to americ and
thank them very much for the opportunity
but let them know that I was going with
unit because I didn't want to take up
someone else's potential interview spot
and my heart was really with United so I
kind of went through a little bit of
that process as far as the application
doing the um personality test I guess
you will which is kind of like torturous
um and it's basically you know here's a
puzzle Can You Solve IT here's a math
problem how quickly can you do it here's
a question here's five terrible answers
but which one would you pick and I don't
really know exactly what they're looking
for you can't really study for it you
can maybe prepare by doing similar
questions but um a lot of airlines have
their different versions of that some
have like a personality test and the
best advice I can give you for those if
you really can't study for them and
don't try to do them in the eyes of the
airline answering how you think they
would want you to answer you just really
have to be truthful because they're
going to ask you the same question
probably five or six different ways
throughout the test so you really don't
want to try to answer it one way and
then try to answer it another way later
on so just kind of be honest be yourself
that's the best I best advice I can give
you for that um now when I was getting
when I was going through when I was a
flight instructor way before the ATP
minimum rule usually you needed about a
1ish hours um and I think 100 multi was
like the the magic number to get an
interview from like Mesa kogan
ExpressJet all those Airlines uh and
even back then this is 2004 5 6 time
frame
um a lot of the airlines they would have
like a multi-day process they'd fly down
there and then you do like the HR
portion one day and then maybe a
simulator evaluation uh the next day
which I don't know if any airlines do
that anymore I did a Sim eval at at
colan back in 2005 and it was in a beach
1900 and I didn't really prepare for it
um meaning I didn't buy Sim time um and
they were they didn't really want you to
know too much about it they gave you you
know percentage num for takeoff but
takeoff do a steep turn climb descend
maintain altitude and then here's a
holding how would you enter their
holding pattern and that's basically
what it was I drove up to LaGuardia the
Marine Air Terminal I think it was
flight safety and I didn't even know
that they had a a 1900 simulator there
but they did and it went fine I ended up
getting the job and I don't remember
much about that interview except that
they asked me what were the uh roles and
responsibilities of a flight attendant
and I remember going on some kind of
rant about um them you know serving the
passengers and the guy sitting next to
me stoed me he goes they're there for
safety and you know like H okay yeah
yeah of course they're there for safety
felt like an idiot but anyway I I went
through the interview there and I ended
up getting the job at colan and then I
um interviewed at ExpressJet uh about a
year later and that interview was very
similar uh they told you the day of if
you got the job or not uh there was no
sim evaluation for that it was basically
um just tell me about a time
questions uh a couple technical things
and I'll go into that further further
along and then Spirits interview in
2013 um was very laidback uh no pressure
there was not really a technical portion
it was more just HR tell me about a time
tell me about yourself um so on and so
forth because remember you know if you
meet these minimum qualifications uh and
you're heading down for an interview I
mean you're already qualified they're
not going to sit there and Hammer you on
on you know technical rebuild the
airplane because they know that you
obviously know that stuff if you've been
fly you should know that stuff anyway if
you've been flying the airplane but they
kind of want to just get to know you uh
they want to know hey is this person
going to fit in the the corporate
culture are they going to be someone
that I want to fly with for uh the you
know 4-day trip stuff like that what
else okay
so as far as getting the resume together
you know I had I don't know what I did
with it but I had my my resume from uh I
think expression and spirit and it's the
same form format and I'll put it up here
so you guys can see what it looked like
but it's very simple just kind of
highlighted my my time my um
qualifications and a little bit of the
volunteering that I did now in the past
things like turban pic and um college
requireed or college
transcript and volunteering were all
kind of important and now the college
degree has kind of been relaxed a little
bit um actually it's been relaxed
significantly I know I know quite a few
people that got hired at American United
and Delta without College where in the
past that was really I mean it was kind
of unheard of um and here you know I
went to a couple colleges uh I'm not a
doctor I didn't you know it's not like I
got any advanced qualifications it just
took me a while to get my degree in
history but I ended up starting off at
Riddle and then I went to a community
college and then I finished up at
Ruckers and I kind of asked myself um I
didn't do all that great in in college
and I wonder if it would have been
better off if I didn't go to College
because I would have saved a significant
amount of money and I wouldn't have to
explain myself um why I got such poor
grades but I think the thing about um
having a an interview or having
something on your resume that maybe
you're not super proud of use it as an
opportunity to kind of let the people
interviewing let them in on on kind of
who you are and and and what your life
was like an example of that as I
remember I was kind of stressed out
about how I was going to answer doing so
poorly in college and and then you know
I thought about it and I did an
interview prep service and I'll talk
about that but it was something along
the lines of hey you know I wasn't doing
that well at Ember riddle I decided let
me come home let me kind of regroup and
and let me figure out a way to not only
finish college but do but continue on
with my ratings and certificates so at
the time I was paying for college myself
I was living at home I was working at a
gym and I was also flight instructing so
you know I I thought I thought of it as
a way to say hey this is you know how I
dealt with a challenge I had to pay for
school I had to continue my education
but I also wanted to Flat instruct and
continue to build my experience so I was
able to manage all of these things and
unfortunately because of that my grades
weren't as high as maybe I would have
liked them to have been but it shows hey
I was able to to juggle a whole bunch of
things um two jobs continuing on my you
know education to where I did achieve
the the college degree and and you kind
of look at it like that right sure I
like to have a 4.0 GPO GPA but that
wasn't the case so when it comes to the
applying online um a lot of the airlines
used to be centralized on uh Airline
apps.com You' pay figure out what it was
maybe it's like 50 bucks a year um and
you could save all your stuff on there
and those applications are really really
tedious and even if Airlines have their
own version of that there's a
significant amount of information that
you're going to need you're going to
need your complete driving history um
you want to have a good look at your
Pria to make sure that all of your check
ride bus if you have any are on there uh
you want to make sure all of your
employment history is accurate with
phone numbers um all of that stuff and
for the new guys that are coming up it
was probably only a couple years ago so
you kind of have all that stuff but for
the maybe second career guys or older
guys like myself it was a challenge to
go back and get my college transcripts
from uh you know the early 2000 not a
challenge but it was just you know kind
of a hassle and then I had to go back
and look for numbers and addresses of
airlines that are no longer there and I
kind of had to figure out hey what point
of contact are they going to want for an
airline that doesn't exist anymore so
just a little bit of of due diligence
that you're going to have to do to kind
of get all that stuff together uh before
you hit submit on the application and as
far as the application goes I applied to
American and
United shortly after the uh merger was
blocked in January and I ended up doing
a uh an application review process for
my United app and it was a couple
hundred dollars and I a lot of different
companies I think the three large um
interview prep companies are emerald Co
Emerald Coast cage Marshall and spitfire
and there's probably some some others
for my interview EXC me for my
application prep I used cage Marshall
and they looked at my application and I
had a couple typos on there and that's
kind of a big deal I mean here you are
you know hiring a department on an
airline or you're going through
someone's application and they spelled
something wrong or their punctuation off
I mean it's kind of your first
impression so I think you know it it
behooves you to actually spend a couple
hundred bucks on the application review
um I would certainly spend a couple
because you have one shot at this and
let's face it there's not that many
airlines out there there's you know
there's United American uh Delta
Southwest Alaska and and you have you
know Frontier JetBlue so there's not
like a ton of of airlines out there so
you really you know you have that one
shot you want to make a good first
impression and I had a couple minor
things that I ended up fixing and on
these applications there was a couple
there's a couple things where you know
it'll say uh duties and responsibilities
in in in in whatever job you have and I
have all this stuff here and first I put
for see if I can find duties and
responsibilities for being a pilot at uh
at Express Jet and initially what I put
was um second in command of the embri
ERJ 145 aircraft assisting the captain
in operating part 121 flights and that's
it and during the app rview they're like
yeah that's that's good but I mean they
know what your duty is as a second
officer on on the Regional Jet maybe you
want to add some more stuff in there and
I got to thinking and I added things
like um you know responsible for overall
safety of the flight including the
passengers crew members cargo and
aircraft create a safe and comfortable
Flight Deck environment allowing for
better communication and decision-making
uh lead by example and create a positive
working environment with the captain
respectfully and effectively communicate
uh and coordinate with all members of
the team including dispatch ground
Personnel gate agents flight attendants
so on and so forth and listen you know
you guys can look at that and be like oh
that's ridiculous but I mean it's all
true that's what you do as as a second
in Command right and it also kind of
adds things that you know maybe you're
embellishing a little bit but it is it
is the truth and I have no idea how
these Airlines
pluck these applications because they
have thousands of applications on file
but if they're using some kind of
artificial intelligence or if they're
looking for certain keywords I'd rather
have I'd rather have stuff in there like
you know communication decision making
um effectively communicate flight
attendance kind of all that stuff I
personally would want to have all that
stuff in there rather than just one
sentence thing I'm not saying that
that's how the airlines will pluck your
application but it probably can't hurt
so that's just kind of something uh to
be aware of as far as log books go I
still have all of these paper log books
um I don't know I I digital is fine and
what a lot of guys and girls did um what
I've seen is they have their digital
they print it out and and they put it in
a binder and they organize it by you
know single engine multi-engine all
those different types of aircraft and
that's fine um I just I have the old old
ones like this and they ask you to maybe
tab your IE or check ride stuff like
that um you can see I have a red one
here uh that's for a check ride fed that
I had and that's kind of another thing
people kind of panic and they dread over
um check ride failures look we're all
human we all make mistakes especially
when it comes to flying
airplanes re really what they want to
see is that you can number one own up to
it and put the blame fully on yourself
and not blame the examiner or the
airplane or something like that and they
want to see that you learn from it uh
and I used uh I busted my multi-engine
check ride was in Twin commane and I was
flying the was a VR approach into aoflex
Andover and I think it has like a I'll
put the plate up here but it's got a
five a combar restriction for the
procedure turn and the examiner failed
my
engine basically right before that
procedure turn which is which is good
practice right so I secured the engine
and I did all that stuff but by the time
I made the turn it was like eight miles
past so I busted that limitation on the
on the uh on the approach and it listen
it's a good it's a valuable lesson
because what do we talk about Pilots
right aviate uh navigate communicate
it's great if you secur the engine but
it's not going to do you any good if you
ply yourself into a mountain right and
if you're flying for these airlines that
fly you know Central and South America
the mountains are are a big deal so I
learned from that experience that hey
flying the airplane is number one make
sure you don't lose situational
awareness of where you are and don't get
yourself test saturated with one thing
and forget about flying the airplane um
and I was asked about that in my spirit
interview uh and I think that was the
only interview where I was asked about
that and it's not a big deal I mean
there's plenty of people that have uh
check ride issues now if you have a
significant amount of check ride issues
um you're going to have to explain
yourself and they're probably going to
want to see uh some successful training
after that so for example if you had a
lot of bus in your part you know 61
environment uh maybe they'll want to see
a couple of years or a couple you know
th000 hours or whatever the case in a
121 environment or a recent upgrade just
kind of showing that you've learned from
your mistake
uh I think 121 Buss are probably um a
little bit more of an issue and I don't
say a little bit more of an issue and
that it's going to keep you from getting
hired somewhere else but I think the
recency of it is is pretty important if
you have a bunch of 121 failures uh it
might raise some red flags and you might
need to hang out a little bit and
upgrade and fly for you know 1,500 hours
2,000 hours whatever the case just to
kind of show the airline that hey you
made some mistakes but you learn from it
and you're able to overcome them and be
a successful Captain for x amount of
hours x amount of um recurrent training
so on and so forth right now when it
comes to the interview prep um like I
said there's plenty of people that
didn't use interview prep service and
that's fine uh there's some that use
just like a web page it's called um I
think it's Airline interviews. comom and
they basically it's like a crowdsourcing
if you will where after your interview
you just say hey this is what they asked
me and they give you how they answered
it but really you just want to look at
the question and see if you can
formulate your your own answer um but I
can assure you that no matter what they
ask you all the question I mean there's
a limited Bank of questions that they
can ask you so they're all basically
going to be you know conflict resolution
stuff like that there's just different
ways of them asking you the question uh
I used Emerald Coast I thought it was a
fantastic program and what they do is
they give you a whole bunch of homework
beforehand and then they have these
things called um rapid fire where you're
basically on a zoom call with a couple
other applicants and you have someone um
that's emulating them being an HR
representative and say hey tell me about
a time you dealt with conflict in the
cockpit or tell me about a time you had
a a customer service issue and it's good
to do it live because you know you're
sitting there kind of in the spot um
answering the questions and you know you
have other people looking at you and and
they're grading you but it's really
really good practice and it really helps
you tighten up those answers and it
helps you per um perfect the Star Format
which I had never heard of that before
until I start started doing interview
prep and I think it's a common thing
among um HR uh throughout all Industries
here but it's again star it's uh
situation task action result and
reflection I believe and you can apply
that to anything so let's say you have a
you know tell me about the time you had
a conflict with a crew member okay well
here's the situation this is what was
happening um the task was to come
together for a solution and kind of you
know come up with a plan act on that
plan and then what was the result of
that plan and then looking back how
could you maybe have handled it
different so on and so forth something
like that but they're really big on the
store Star Format so much so that the
you know you always think you have to
come up with some like Grand Story or
you know there we were you know with a
wing on fire and that's not really the
case um sometimes simple is is better
and they really just want you to answer
via the Star Format so they could you
know kind of check that box if you will
they'll sometimes ask you questions hey
tell me about a time you violated
company policy and stuff like that's a
little tricky because you don't want to
say well one time I was you know at 270
below 10 and I corrected and and filled
out in ASAP and all was well uh probably
not the best use of of of answering that
but maybe something along the lines of
for example something that happened to
me at Spirit uh we had they had a policy
a couple years ago where they didn't
want you they wanted to reduce the Apu
used for fuel so he pull up to the gate
with one engine running and then once
they hook up the ground power you would
shut the engine off well one day going
up to the gate parked a jet waited for
the ground power and one of the rampers
threw a wand over the head of another
ramper and he went over his head he
turned around he ran directly towards
the wand which happened to be right in
front of the the number one engine which
was running so I quickly shut the engine
down airplane went dark did I violate
the company policy I mean yeah I did
right but why did I do it it was for
safety so that's an example of maybe why
you would want to use something like
that versus yeah yeah I was you know
talking below 10 or something equally
ridiculous like that so these are this
kind of things that this Airline prep
kind of helps you answer with questions
like that and I think the biggest the
biggest aha moment for me was I was kind
of wrapping up my sessions and all the
airlines again they kind of ask you the
the same questions and one of them that
all the airlines are going to ask you
and it's usually towards the end of the
interview is you know why such and such
Airline and I kind of knew why but I I
couldn't really just wrap it into like a
nice 3 to 5 minute um dissertation if
you will so towards the end she had
asked me a couple questions and she was
asking me in a way that I I was
answering all the questions kind of into
one little grouping so she kept kind of
Rapid Fire question and then she asked
me I forget exactly how she asked the
question but she did ask me a question
and it kind of involved my family and
the experiences that I've had at Spirit
and kind of what I want my future to
look like and I answered the question
and I looked up at the you know the
screen and she had just this gigantic
smile on her face and then I kind of
smiled and she's like that's it that's
your you know wi such and such Airline
so it's kind of like one of those
moments and that was worth the it was
like a couple hundred bucks but that
right there was worth it and I
fine-tuned that and I dialed it in and I
you know it was like the ending of a
movie at the end of my interview they
asked me that question and I just you
know boom went right for it had it
memorized and I felt like I really I
mean I felt like I nailed it and that
might make the difference between you
know having a okay interview but nailing
that and getting the job and having an
okay interview and not nailing that and
not getting the job so for me the
interview prep I think is is highly
worth it which one you do I think is you
know that's up to you you can kind of
research them and find out which one
might work for you but but I I highly
recommend doing that because for me it
it paid dividends I thought it was great
and another thing about the interview
questions itself
is depending on your experience um the
question that they ask you may be a
little different now I remember when I
was interviewing at kogan and at uh you
know ExpressJet I didn't really have
much experience other than general
aviation and flying so I was always kind
of wondered like what question are they
going to ask me that I don't I've I
haven't thought of or you know I've
never seen before and there's books
airline pilot technical interviews where
you can kind of read through those
questions and come up with it but what I
found um at Spirit and recently United
is you know they ask you these questions
you've been doing this for kind of a
while I've been doing it for kind of a
while so there was really nothing out of
the ordinary I kind of had to just maybe
take a second to think about a story but
really they're asking you how you would
operate day in and day out I've seen a
lot of things from customer service
issues I've had medical diversions I've
had um mechanical diversions emergencies
I've had a lot of different things uh
that I was able to kind of pull from and
for those guys that are in your second
career or you're older with a little
less experience flying don't let that
stress you out um what you lack maybe an
experience flying airliners I can
guarantee you you have in just life
experience and working in the corporate
America and dealing with conflict I mean
all of that stuff applies it doesn't
necessarily have to be uh flying and I
remember one point during the the zoom
call was me and another applicant and he
was really sharp uh really well spoken
he didn't have much experience though
and I remember the um the HR person if
you will said hey can you give me a time
when you had to deal with some um
traumatic experience in in your home
life and kind of how did you deal with
that and I mean we sat there for like 10
15 minutes and this and he just could
not think of anything of any conflict at
all and here I am like man you know I'm
44 I've gone through so much in my life
from you know almost failing out of
college right to car accidents to loss
of family members to you know almost
losing my my twins uh when they were
born so like I had all this all these
things that I could pull from and this
guy um just didn't have a lot of it and
and he it really kind of got to him and
it was just like listen you know don't
worry about stuff don't worry about that
because you're going to there's going to
come a point where they're going to ask
you question that you may not know and I
mean that's kind of part of the deal and
kind of how you handle that I think is
more telling than than just not knowing
I think he he had it was something like
he had like a bad flying lesson or just
something like really mundane right but
it wasn't his fault I mean he was you
know early 20s and just didn't have that
much um experience or just didn't have
anything in his life that was that
traumatic so it's not a big deal uh and
this is where it got really weird right
because she asked me that and you know I
thought about um I thought about my
twins that were born they were born like
a month early and it was I mean for a
minute there it was it was really it was
terrifying and I thought about that and
I started talking about it and like you
know my eyes started to water up and
like I got choked up and I was like you
know I'm like this is this is is bad you
know this is not good and she's like hey
this is awesome because it shows who you
are it shows that you're human and it
shows that like listen you know life
happens and kind of how you deal with it
is is really what this is all about
you're showing them a part of you um
that maybe they had no idea about it
shows that you're human that being said
you know you don't want to have like a
mental breakdown and and not be able to
collect yourself but it was really good
uh because if if they if I hadn't maybe
answered that or or thought that hey
maybe they're going to ask me this
question and they asked me that in the
interview you you know all the emotion
of the day I mean it's an emotional day
you work so hard for a good good many
years a good part of your life to get
there and then they asked you this
question and it's like you know oh man
you know and I'm glad that they asked me
that question there because if they
would have asked me that and they didn't
ask me that question at at the interview
but if they would have I don't know
maybe the maybe the tears would have
came and you know I wouldn't have be
able to collect myself and that's you
know yeah you're human but at the same
point you know you can't you can't have
a breakdown at the interview because
what happens when you're in the airplane
and and you there's a fire you can't you
can't you have to be able to compose
yourself right um so that was just
another aspect that I thought was really
really good of the interview prep um is
kind of reflecting and answering
questions out loud because I can think
about it you can think about answering
it but until you actually do it out loud
it's believe me it's it's different and
when you have somebody critiquing it
it's it's it's significantly different
so that's why I I recommend that um and
again guys if they're bringing if flying
you out there and if they're going to
take their time to interview you you
have the job so the job is yours to lose
for the most part and I don't want guys
to think that because they have less
time or less experience that they're not
going to get it I have friends at Spirit
that have 15,000 hours that that didn't
get the job um recently at at a legacy
Airline and I know guys that have 2500
hours that that did get the job so don't
let experience be um don't let that
think that you're not deserving of the
job okay and that being said it was kind
of funny too when we were doing the
interview prep the one-on-one there was
a guy there talking about tell me about
a time you had a difficult situation on
on the flight deck and how you dealt
with it and I think I talked about some
like passenger that was getting annoyed
and how we maybe had to do like a a
diversion because there was a a level
one threat and here I am like oh that's
that's a good story you know and then
the guy after me went and he was like a
a B1 bomber pilot and his wingman lost
his instruments and they had to like you
know fly close formation and like IFR to
to lead him out of danger and I'm like
oh my God like this like that's that's a
story I you know I was almost
embarrassed so um but it's good to see
that too right because it kind of
humbled you in and said all right maybe
I got to perfect my story or you'll see
somebody else that's kind of struggling
with the story and you're like okay
they're struggling too you know I
struggle through a story it's kind of
just human nature so that was kind of
interesting to see too as far as the
technical portion of the interview
goes uh like they tell me about a time
questions you can find you know hundreds
of pages on like Airline interview.com
but it's really just tell me by the
time um you dealt with you know conflict
tell me by the time you had to make a
decision on the Fly tell me about a time
you disagreed with a policy and what did
you do about it um questions like that
and then there's a technical portion
which I feel like
Airlines I don't want to say they shied
away from technical portions but they
definitely
gone maybe a little less hardcore on
technical uh they're it's probably it's
completely fair game for them to ask you
um any technical questions on the
airplane that you're flying I mean you
should have a basic understanding of the
airplane systems limitations especially
if you're flying an airplane that that
airline flies or the pilot who's
interviewing you if you fly the same
airplane I mean it's all it's all fair
game uh and I was asked a couple
questions about about the Airbus there
weren't anything um too difficult and
they'll ask you you know what your
stable approach criteria for your um for
your company um give me walk me through
a V1 cut profile and these are things
that you should know anyway but they're
just going to have you walk you through
them and then they'll ask they maybe ask
you a question hey you're rolling down
the runway at V1 or close to V1 and you
get a cargo door light you know what are
you going to do and inexperienced me
because I remember that question from
years ago at your before V1 you get a
light I'm I'm AB boarding I mean there's
that's it that you know no questions to
asking going abort me as a Airbus
captain at Spirit I wouldn't abort for
that and they're going to want to know
why and I feel like if you can come up
with a with a good answer and and not
change your answer because they might
kind of look at you like oh really and
they might want you to change your
answer but they really want you to stick
with with whatever answer you initially
say and if you have valid reasoning for
it then I think that's a good thing so
for example me I'd continue because you
know that the airplane is still going to
fly it's not a fire it's not a flight
control failure it's a cargo door the
airplane is going to fly perfectly fine
with it you take off you clean up the
airplane and then all you have to do is
take a look at uh to see if the
airplane's pressurizing if the
airplane's pressurizing all right it's a
probably just an indication you run
through the the Q or whatever and you're
on your way you write it up talk to
maintenance but if the airplane's not
pressurizing all right then you just
come back for an air return um now if
you're rejecting prior to
V1 for that and it was just an
indication well now you have have an
airplane that really hot breaks you can
potentially blow the tires or the plugs
you're stuck on the runway airplane's
going to be down passengers are kind of
inconvenience so that's just something
you're going to have to answer for now
if you would say well you know if it was
the end of a long Duty day and we
extended and there was weather and I
felt myself um you know I was tired I
just felt it was safer for me to abort
than have to deal with a potential
emergency in the air while I was
fatigued that's a good answer too I
think it just kind of depends on how you
answer the question um and they'll ask
you maybe similar questions like hey you
know you're holding because your airport
destination closed there's an airport
underneath you that is down to minimums
um or there's an airport you know half
an hour away where it's going to burn
into your reserve but it's clearing a
million you know what are you going to
do and again both of those are probably
fine but what they're going to look for
is why why one over the other which your
reasoning and if you can come up with a
good reasoning and support it then
you're going to be fine but it's kind of
not having a solid answer or going back
and forth which is might kind of raise
questions because yeah you're getting
hired initially as an Foo but every
single time you interview I mean let's
face it they're interviewing you you as
a captain because one day you'll be a
captain and that's kind of the the
mentality that they're looking for so
just again this is not these are
questions that all the airlines are
going to ask you um oh this is big this
is really really big and and this is
something that seems to come up often do
not lie
uh anywhere on your application or
conveniently forget to put something and
I'm talking about check ride failures if
you were ever fired from a job stage
check failures um driving history I had
a bunch of of tickets they weren't
speeding tickets they were like you know
license plate not having my license
plate in the front of my bumper in New
Jersey cuz I you know I thought it was
cool and I didn't want to do that back
in the day but it's something I had to
answer for and it's moveing violation
but you know I I didn't imagine this you
know have you ever had any tickets and I
ask you to list all of your tickets
since your whole driving history and
having to put a whole bunch of tickets
I'd rather not but if I didn't put those
and then they get their report from the
ndr and they see that and you omitted it
they're going to ask you to leave uh and
if you're in basic indoc they're going
to pull you out and that's it you you
were now fired and it's pre- reportable
and you could forget about ever applying
to that Airline again um and that goes
for check rides because number one
they're going to ask you to put You Know
Tab your check rides and they're going
to have all that information anyway and
done by a you know a third party
background investigation company so just
don't do it I got I mean I know people
that got hired with DUIs um with
airplane accidents and and they're Delta
Pilots now or they're United or American
Pilots whatever the case it's because
they didn't lie um if you lie about that
stuff it's going to catch up with you at
the worst possible time so just just
don't lie that's really the I can't
stress that enough and I know it could
be tempting to just leave out a minor
detail but don't I mean even on one of
the applications they asked me um you
know have you ever been contacted by the
FAA doesn't say violated it just says
have you ever been contacted and I was
contacted there was a video and I'll
link it here for when I you know with
the Drone and and the cub and uh the fa
called me on it and there's no I can't
find anything on it I remember searching
on the FAA and I even sent an email to
the inspector and he's like no it's not
really anywhere but I'm like you know
what they asked me if I've ever been
contacted by the FAA I'm like I have
that's it that that's where the answer
ends I clicked yes and I explained why
and it's kind of another thing too it's
like you know if you get to the
interview and they see that I mean it's
a perfect opportunity to just have a
conversation yeah here's what happened
you know here's what I learned from it I
had a great conversation with the fa
inspector so again you got to take these
negative things that happened to you
like a check ride
failure uh maybe a speeding take get
something like that and kind of you know
turn it into a learning experience and
how you're a better pilot better person
for IT uh because again the people on
the other side of the table they're all
humans most of them have probably had a
speeding ticket um the point is that
they're all humans so don't don't don't
lie because it'll they'll they will ask
you to leave um there's no you know I
talk about it's better to ask for
forgiveness and permission like when I
bought my airplane I bought it and then
told my wife that's not the case when it
com comes to Airlines and applications
and interviews be forth be forthcoming
put everything out there and uh and and
it's just a much much better way of
doing it because they will find out all
right what else we got what else we got
all right it's personal insights again I
use chat GPT to say hey maybe some
things I I could hit on here
um I don't know I think uh I mean I I
really wasn't nervous I I knew it was at
stake and I had the normal amount of
nervous you know I mean let's face it
it's a big deal but I I was confident
because I prepared I impared I mean I I
prepared like I prepared to I felt like
I knew every single time about a time
question which I didn't I don't remember
the specific question but I remember
them asking me a question and I felt
like oh man I am just rambling and
there's just no Star Format to this and
this is ugly but I I got through it but
for the most part I felt like I was
prepared for any question that they
could have thrown at me um and I feel
like I had not proved myself but I've
been around for while I've been flying
the Airbus at Spirit for 12 years a
captain for for 10 of it so you know I
felt like hey I I have a lot of
experience let me just show them who I
am as a person um and and and hopefully
I'll get the job and I did as far as um
what I would do differently other than
apply much earlier I
mean you know I would say keep your lo
oh this here you go keep your log books
up to date um I had so many friends that
have been dragging for the past year for
the simple fact that they don't want to
tackle their log book because they
haven't logged an hour of flight time
for years and that is a big deal um I
think
American uh wants it I think they prefer
I could be wrong so please if anyone has
any information that that says otherwise
let me know but I believe American
prefers this is recent prefers leg by
leg or certainly day by day I know you
know a year ago you could show up with
basically you know your printed out crew
track or whatever and they would accept
that but I don't think that's the case
anymore so imagine being 10 years behind
on your log book and having to to to I
mean that's just GH I know guys that
have done it um actually one of them is
starting American uh I think in January
and it was you know it was 10 years of
of log book stuff that he had to that he
had to get together I always kept my log
books up to date because of flying the
Cub um so it wasn't an issue for me but
I know it was a really big deal big big
deal for others so just keep up with
your log books uh even if you think
you're at your Forever Airline because I
thought I was at my forever Airline and
and it turns out I was not and I had to
get all my log books and stuff together
and and that could be a real a real pain
so just keep your log books up to date
um and as far as networking goes letters
of recommendation I feel like those one
of those things you can never have
enough of I don't think it makes or
breaks it but I certainly would try to
to reach out to former or colleagues or
guys that you've flown with guys or
girls that you've flown with and have
them write a letter a recommendation um
because I think it says a lot especially
coming from the company that that you're
trying to apply
to uh what's where this is a funny story
this was at my colan interview there was
a guy that was sitting next to me that
had a suit on but he had no he had no
shoes on and I'm not kidding when I say
this he had he had socks on but no shoes
apparently um he said that they had lost
his shoes The Airliner lost his shoes
but I can never understand why how he
got from the airplane to the um Hotel
without shoes on I mean it would be
better for me I think to just wear
sneakers than to not wear shoes at all
um but he was asked to leave it's it's
pretty basic stuff guys you know dark
suit um white shirt conservative tie
solid color tie brown or black shoes I
know I think back in the day it used to
be like you know oh Delta you have to
wear a red tie and maybe Brown Shoe or
black shoes whatever it is I don't I
don't think lines are like that anymore
just kind of be presentable and
professional and and just keep it
conservative I guess during the
interview they asked them um did you use
a prep service for the interview and
some guys and girls are like no I told
them I didn't use it I don't I wouldn't
understand I why would you lie about
that I don't to me I would want them to
know that I prepared and I think they're
going to know if you prepared and I
don't see I mean I feel like half the PE
more than half the people that that do
these interview prep Services they work
for the airline anyway so like it's not
a big secret that people use these so I
would just be honest I don't know that's
something that just came up and and I
thought
about uh what else I think that's pretty
much all I have like I said it's a very
daunting process when you first have to
apply but just make sure you know you go
through your application I would pay for
the service it's a tiny amount of money
considering the potential million
millions of dollars worth of of career
earnings you could have and I would dial
it in because you only get first
impression um and so I would definitely
do that with the application review make
sure your log books are up to date um do
the interview prep or at least the very
least do Airline interview.com and make
sure you have all those questions that
you have the ability to answer and also
make sure that you understand the the
company that you're applying for make
sure you understand kind of their
corporate culture and things that are
really important to them because they
may ask you a little bit about the
company's history or what do you think
about you know XYZ Airlines values and
you want to be able to kind of you know
rapid fire that that stuff off and not
have to think about it because it shows
that you obviously care enough to do a
little bit of research on that company
um that's all I got I again hope that I
never have to do another airline
interview again but if I do um you know
I've done four and a half of them so you
know what's what's five and a half if
you guys have any other specific
questions please just let me know shoot
me an email um put a message on here I
know I obviously didn't cover everything
but this is kind of just like a macro
speaking hey here's what kind of you can
expect for for the airline um interview
process and you and remember guys you
know they know that the interview gou is
out there they know that you've seen all
these questions so they really just kind
of want to get to know who you are so
kind of come up and formulate um answers
that are from your own background and
your own life experience so that they
get to kind of see see who you are and
you're not just giving these cookie
cookie cutter answers that don't really
let them see the the real you um job
fairs something
that I it's kind of like a I don't want
to say it's a necessary evil but it is
an absolutely great way to get yourself
not to the front of the line but maybe
get your resume um with a little star on
it perhaps or have the ability to talk
to the recruiters have them put uh a
face to the resume and and kind of maybe
push your application and guys I know
it's I know it could be really
frustrating especially for the higher
time guys and girls uh you've got all
these years and these thousands of hours
of experience and you don't want to have
to take the day off and pay to go to a
job fair I get it I remember going to a
job fair in I think it was 2012 I went
to two job fairs I went to one for it
was Delta and it was for US Airways at
the time and I was really excited about
the US Airways one and I get there and
they're like we're not actually going to
meet people individually we're not going
to take resumés it's just an information
session and I was
literally I was kind of you know was one
of those are you serious are you kidding
me not that I was really super
competitive but I wanted to at least
have a shot right uh and here it's like
I spent the money went down there and
and just to sit there and listen to
stuff that that didn't really um help uh
and then there was Delta when I got a
chance to talk to one of the air
recruiters um she told me that oh yeah
you should you know upgrade become a a
Check Airman and uh get you know a
couple thousand hours and then apply
again and at the time I was like a 7year
fo with no upgrade in sight I there was
nothing that I could do but I get it
that's you know that's that's what it
took to get hired at the time um so I
thanked her for her time and then I went
to a job fair in Vegas and I was able to
meet with a recruiter and then 24 hours
later I had an interview set up with
spirit so they they do work um but again
you know they have a bunch of job fairs
throughout the year whether it's like
wound and Aviation or it's um obap or
nagpa there's a whole bunch of different
job fairs I highly highly recommend
going to those I think now they actually
in on some occasions do on the spot
interviews which I think would be great
and at the very least you get to talk to
your recruiter they get to look at your
resume um and and I think that's a
really I mean I don't think I know for a
fact that's a great way to to get
yourself um it's my wife calling to to
get um a lot of airlines they'll talk
about you know volunteering and I I did
a ton of volunteer work uh when I was
much younger and I do a little bit now
like with the EAA Young Eagles um if
you've done anything at all at your
airline you know make sure that they're
aware of it make sure they put it on
your resume um interestingly enough I
did a ton of apple work when I was at
Express Jet and I was told by a friend
that um Spirit at the time they don't
really want you to um they weren't
exactly thrilled I guess with Alpa at
the time so they said hey don't put your
Vol Alpa volunteer stuff on the resume
so I didn't and I thought oh man I have
all this volunteer work that I can't put
on there but anyway um I did a ton of
volunteer work at Spirit uh critical
incident response pilot assistance chair
um uh P2P just I mean a whole laundry
list of stuff that I was involved in and
I put that on there and that's great
because it shows that you you don't just
go to work and then set the parking
break and go home and ever think about
work again it shows that hey you go to
work and you kind of give back to the
pilot group so if you do any app of
volunteer work make sure you put that
stuff in there and if I'm not saying do
it to add fluff to the resume but if
you're thinking about doing it go ahead
and do it and then you know put it on
your resume because I think it is
helpful and it's also great um for
networking because you know the Alpa
guys and girls um they get together
every couple years and and each um MEC
knows someone from the other MEC so it's
just nice to have friends in in those
places that you can rely on or kind of
ask for for advice so I highly recommend
um making sure if you do any type of
volunteer work whatsoever you put it on
your resume uh cuz I think that that
does help it kind of shows a little bit
more about your character um now
obviously the interview process that I
remembered the most is United because it
was probably the most important one but
also because it was the most recent um
so essentially what happens is you fly
down preferably the night before um they
give you an interview slot and then you
walk over to the training center or the
corporate headquarters wherever they
have it and you you sign in uh and then
you just go sit down now at United they
do it where you basically go to the the
uh the cafeteria and you're it's like
that first table on the right um and
that's where you you'll walk in there
and you see the other guys and girls in
the suits and you kind of immediately
know you know let me go talk to them um
and this is this doesn't need to be said
but I'll say it anyway just in case I
don't know but we can show up to these
things and there's other candidates
there make sure you introduce yourself
and you're personable I know that may
sound super obvious but when I was doing
training at I saw a couple a couple
applicants come in and they kind of
there was a group of people all talking
and then you know they would kind of
just go sit by themselves maybe it was
nerves whatever the case but um I think
it's important to kind of put a smile on
your face appear personable meet the
other applicants kind of break the ice
so to speak uh when I did my interview
there was I think it was a couple Sky
West guys and there happened to be
another Spirit Captain who was right
around my senority so that was
immediately like ah it was so nice to
see a a face from a familiar company so
to speak and then they walk in you know
they're in their um you know the pilots
are in their uniforms and it's you know
the adrenaline starts going and they're
incredibly laidback super nice they
really made you feel right at home um
they kind of show you around the
training center they take your log books
and they'll do a log book review and
they'll kind of go through everything
that they want you tabbed this way they
can kind of just get to know you a
little bit maybe formulate some
questions based on your log book um and
then they'll they'll take you into a
holding room so to speak and then
they'll come in and they'll pick you out
one by one and they'll and they'll bring
you up there and they'll do the the HR
sl/ technical portion and it goes by
just so quickly I mean it's such a blur
it's it's wild how quickly it goes I
couldn't even remember the questions
that they asked me it was you know I
felt like it was over in a Flash and it
probably only took like 30 40 minutes or
so but um it was just a really really
great experience and uh it's one of
those things where you know you kind
of I don't want to say I want to do it
again but I felt like you know it was
one of those experiences that was just a
really really good experience that you
kind of wish you could relive it but at
the same time I don't want to have to
relive it again because that means I'd
have to interview again which is not
something I'm interested in but it was a
great experience and I do remember um
you know again when I was in training
they would still all the applicants
would go in that in the cafeteria and I
remember one guy came in and uh he sat
down and he had a gigantic bag of
chick-fil-et and I was like oh man I'm
like that's that's a really good idea
man I I have no pull but if I did I
would I would hire you so he brought a
huge bag of Chick-fil-A for everybody
that was interviewing and for the
applicants and it's like I mean that's
you know I didn't bring anything I
brought my log books and and a and a
smile but uh this guy brought the
Chick-fil-A and I don't I I wonder if he
got hired I don't know I hope he did but
um I'm not saying you have to do that
but I just thought that that was kind of
funny that was a pretty pretty clever
thing to do um again you don't have to
do that but just when you are around the
training center uh there are eyes on you
so whether it's the van driver the gate
agent the flight attend whatever it is
just make sure you're professional and
friendly um with with everybody uh all
right that's it that's all I got all
right guys